ars_page: Guidance on Completing Your Online Program Registration – Academic Registry Services
url: https://ars.hkust-gz.edu.cn/program-registration/online-program-registration-guide/guidance-on-completing-your-online-program-registration/
source: ARS

headings:
  - Guidance on Completing Your Online Program Registration

text: >
  Guidance on Completing Your Online Program Registration
  Activate Your Campus Account
  Your Campus Account will be sent to your personal email account before you receive Email on Program Registration. Please follow the email instruction to activate your account before registration. You may also click
  here
  for the user guide on the account activation and the access to your email box. For any questions, please contact
  gzit@hkust-gz.edu.cn
  .
  Complete the Online Registration Form
  Log onto the Online Registration Form with your activated Campus Account.
  Check and confirm your personal details and program information, provide updated personal information if there is any inconsistency.
  Provide or update your contact information as well as emergency contact information.
  Read through the Personal Information Collection Statement (PICS) and grant your consent.
  Upload the Personal Identification Documents
  Upload your personal identification documents on the registration form. Validation will be made based on your documents. Changes of your personal information will not be effective until they are verified by the Academic Registry Services (ARS).
  Upload
  Your Photo for Student Card
  You must upload a photo before your arrival at HKUST (GZ) so that your student card can be prepared ready for you when you get here. Please follow the instructions on the specification of your photo.
  Acknowledgement of Program Registration
  When you have successfully completed the Online Program Registration, an email with subject “Acknowledgement of Program Registration to the University” will be sent to both your Campus Account and your personal email account after verification by ARS as a confirmation of your registration.

links:
  - here | https://static.hkust-gz.edu.cn/itd/policy/GuideToAccountActivationAndO356.pdf