ars_page: Graduations – Academic Registry Services
url: https://ars.hkust-gz.edu.cn/graduations/
source: ARS

headings:
  - Graduation
  - PG Graduation Guide
  - Request Forms
  - When can I get the Degree Diploma/Transcript/Award Certification Letter?
  - Award Certification Letter for Graduates
  - Verification of study record (by external party)

text: >
  Graduation
  On Graduation Process Check, Credit Transfer, Course Deviation…
  PG Graduation Guide
  Request Forms
  Below applications can be requested, please click
  here
  for the links under Graduation category:
  Award Certification Letter for Graduates
  Credit Transfer
  Course Substitution/Deviation from Curriculum
  Thesis Examination Result for Research Postgraduate Degrees
  Qualifying Examination Result for PhD Student
  Apply
  When can I get the Degree Diploma/Transcript/Award Certification Letter?
  Degree/postgraduate diploma will be issued after the conferment of degrees at scheduled sessions below:
  (1) 31 January
  (2) 31 March
  (3) 31 May
  (4) 31 July
  (5) 15 October
  Each graduate (except those from some special degree and diploma programs) will be issued:
  – ONE copy of the Degree Diploma in paper and electronic version (JSON format)
  – ONE free copy of the Academic Transcript in paper and electronic version (JSON format)
  – ONE free copy of the Award Certification Letter (ACL) in electronic version (JSON format)
  Time to issue the degree diploma together with academic transcript:
  E-version (diploma, transcript & ACL): normally a few additional days required for the insurance after the date of degree conferment.
  Hard-copy (diploma & transcript): normally issued in one month after the date of degree conferment.
  Award Certification Letter for Graduates
  Award Certification Letter (ACL)
  The Award Certification Letter is a standard letter to certify the status and degree award details of graduates.
  A free electronic copy (in JSON format) will be issued to students who
  have completed their programs of study and have been formally approved by the University for graduation; and
  have their degrees conferred.
  Other than the free copy, graduates may request for additional award certification letter (paper or electronic format) at a charge of ¥20 by submitting online requests.
  Provisional Award Certification Letter (PACL)
  Potential graduates who have not yet been approved for graduation but have already (1) satisfied all the graduation requirements as confirmed by their program office with (2) all grades are reported may apply for a provisional version (paper or scanned copy) only if there is an urgent need of the proof of completion of studies by submitting online requests.
  Online Request
  Verification of study record (by external party)
  With the explicit consent of our graduate, the Academic Registry Services provides degree verification service to educational institutions, employers and employment agencies, etc. Requests could be sent to us (gzars@hkust-gz.edu.cn) with the following information:
  Student/graduate full name, date of birth and identification document no.
  Explicit consent of the student/graduate for releasing the information to the enquirer
  While transcripts and letters will not be certified, students/graduates may apply for a copy to be sent to a specific recipient.
  HKUST(GZ) issues some official documents in a secure electronic format which are verifiable. Please click
  here
  for details.

links:
  - PG Graduation Guide | https://ars.hkust-gz.edu.cn/graduation/pg-graduation-guide/
  - here | https://ars.hkust-gz.edu.cn/student-services/
  - Online Request | https://acad-edoc.hkust-gz.edu.cn/index
  - here | https://edoc.hkust-gz.edu.cn/home