ars_page: PG Graduation Guide (Spring & Summer, 2025-26) – Academic Registry Services
url: https://ars.hkust-gz.edu.cn/graduation/pg-graduation-guide/
source: ARS

headings:
  - PG Graduation Guide (Spring & Summer, 2025-26)
  - 1. About This Guide
  - 2. Graduation Requirements (PG)
  - 3. Academic Progress
  - 4. Graduation Check Process
  - 5. GGA Calculation
  - 6. Graduation Approval
  - 7. Conferment of Degree
  - 8. Key Dates for Graduation
  - Related Information

text: >
  PG Graduation Guide (Spring & Summer, 2025-26)
  gzgrad@hkust-gz.edu.cn
  Table of Contents
  1.
  About This Guide
  When students have completed, or are registered in courses that will complete, the academic and non-academic requirements for an award, they will be included in the list of pending graduates. The non-academic requirement includes the settlement of all fees or fines payable and that there is no serious case pending decision with the Student Disciplinary Committee.
  For more details, please refer to the Academic Regulations and the Handbooks for Postgraduate Studies.
  Academic Regulations Governing Postgraduate Studies for The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou)
  Handbook for Taught Postgraduate Studies
  Handbook for Research Postgraduate Studies
  2.
  Graduation Requirements (PG)
  To be considered for graduation, all PG students must:
  a) have completed
  all degree requirement
  s
  for an award
  b) have obtained a
  GGA of 2.850
  or above
  For MPhil and PhD students, they must also:
  a) have attained a
  pass in the thesis examination
  ,
  b) have met the
  residency requirements
  of the program.
  * Postgraduate students who are
  Chinese citizens
  are required to fulfill the
  Political Education requirement
  (3 credits for master’s students,2 credits for PhD students).
  Students are not required to apply for graduation. The Academic Registry Services will identify the potential graduates for each degree program around six weeks after the start of the term.
  Students who have completed their program requirements are NOT allowed to continue their registration for the same program of study in subsequent terms.
  3.
  Academic Progress
  3.1.
  Credit Transfer
  Related Academic Regulations are available
  here (6.2 Credit Transfer)
  . Students should also refer to the Sections on Course Substitution and Credit Transfer on the Handbook for
  Research Postgraduate Studies
  or
  Taught Postgraduate Studies
  for further details.
  Students who wish to be granted credit transfer on-entry / during study should submit their applications to the relevant academic units for approval using the
  GR26a form
  .
  3.2.
  Course Substitution
  Related Academic Regulations are available
  here (6.1 Course Substitution)
  . Students should also refer to the Handbook for
  Research Postgraduate Studies
  or
  Taught Postgraduate Studies
  for further details.
  Students who wish to apply for course substitution and/or course exemption should submit their applications to the relevant academic units for approval using the
  GR27a form
  .
  3.3.
  Notes to Students
  The Advisement Report is available for students to understand their study progress. Students are responsible for ensuring that they will complete all credit and non-credit requirements for their program of study for the degree award.
  The advisement report is only a reference on students’ study progress
  .
  There may be certain requirements which cannot be set up by system logic and they will only be verified upon graduation check near the last term of study. There are also other technical constraints which may affect the accuracy of the report. As such,
  students should NOT solely rely on the Report for enrolment or program requirement fulfilling purposes and are strongly advised to consult the advisors regularly for academic advice
  .
  Students should also refer to the
  Program Catalog
  regularly for the latest updates.
  3.4.
  Progression and Academic Standing
  Related Academic Regulations are available
  here (8. Progression and Academic Standing)
  . Students should also refer to the Handbook for
  Research Postgraduate Studies
  or
  Taught Postgraduate Studies
  for further details.
  4.
  Graduation Check Process
  4.1.
  Verification of Graduation Status
  The Academic Registry Services identifies the prospective graduates based on the following criteria:
  Taught programs
  :
  the total number of credits (including all approved transfer credits) to be earned by the end of the term.
  MPhil and PhD programs
  :
  the data collected in the latest Annual Progress Reports for Research Students; and the notification received from student/student’s Program Office.
  Students who are identified as potential graduates will be assigned graduation status “Applied”, “Pending” or “In Review” at different stages of the graduation process:
  Applied
  – at the first stage of the graduation check exercise when student is identified as potential graduate.
  Pending
  – the case is being review under the graduation check exercise, passed cases will be submitted to HKUST Senate Committee for approval.
  In Review
  – the case has passed the graduation check and will be submitted to HKUST Senate Committee for approval.
  The graduation status can be viewed at the
  Student Center
  (My Academics > Graduation Status).
  Please contact us IMMEDIATELY
  if you are planning to graduate in the specified term but your graduation status is not updated; or
  if you are identified as a potential graduate but will NOT be able to complete your study in the specified term. Please contact us to update your status or else you will NOT be able to enroll in courses in the subsequent terms.
  if you are on the list but your NAME (both English and Chinese) and PROGRAM(S) registered, which will be printed on the diploma, are incorrect.
  Students who have completed their program requirements are NOT allowed to continue their registration for the same program of study in subsequent terms.
  The Advisement Report is available for students to understand their study progress. Students are responsible for ensuring that they will complete all credit and non-credit requirements for their program of study for the degree award.
  4.2.
  Thesis Submission Deadline (for MPhil and PhD students)
  The deadlines for students to submit final thesis copies to the University Thesis Submission System are:
  7 June 2026 (for Spring 2025-26)
  23 August 2026 (for Summer 2025-26)
  Students submitting their theses to the University Thesis Submission System after the Summer deadline will be required to register and pay the tuition fees for the coming Fall term and their graduation will be deferred. To meet the deadline, please schedule the thesis examination with Program Office well in advance.
  5.
  GGA Calculation
  Graduation Grade Average (GGA)
  is based on the CGA calculated at the end of the term for which the student is placed on the list of potential graduates. All courses required by the degree requirements must be included in the calculation of the GGA.
  The formula for calculating the GGA is as below:
  5.1.
  Surplus Course Exclusion
  Students may request that graded courses included in the calculation of the graduation CGA are excluded from this calculation to improve their GGA. However, no course required for the award of the student’s degree may be excluded.
  Program Offices have been advised to establish their departmental policy for dealing with surplus courses in the determination of student’s GGA and have it announced to their students in advance. Students may wish to check with Program Office if there is any departmental policy.
  Requests should be made to Program Office at the final term of study after all grades are reported
  .
  Students should also note that
  NO further changes
  in academic record will be entertained after graduation is confirmed by the University. Therefore, potential graduates should check their registration information, grades, GGA and courses excluded from the Student Information System regularly.
  6.
  Graduation Approval
  Endorsement by Hub/College Boards or their Postgraduate Studies Committees is required to confirm the graduation list and any special recommendations by Program Offices for program completion. Prospective graduates from Program Offices are considered and recommended by the HKUST(GZ) Committee on Postgraduate Studies and are then approved by the HKUST Committee on Postgraduate Studies, as delegated by the HKUST Senate.
  6.1.
  Certification of Award
  A free electronic copy (in JSON format) of Award Certification Letter will be issued by the Academic Registry Services to students who have completed their programs of study and have been formally approved by HKUST for graduation. Other than the free electronic copy, graduates may request for additional Award Certification Letter by submitting online requests (
  link
  ).
  Potential graduates who have not yet been approved for graduation but (1) have satisfied all the graduation requirements as confirmed by their Program Office with (2) all grades reported may apply for a
  provisional Award Certification Letter
  by submitting online requests (
  link
  ) in the last month of their graduation term
  only if there is an urgent need of the proof of completion of studies
  .
  After the conferment of degrees on the scheduled dates, each graduate will be issued:
  ONE copy of the Degree Diploma in paper and electronic version (JSON format)
  ONE free copy of the Academic Transcript in paper and electronic version (JSON format)
  ONE free copy of the Award Certification Letter in electronic version (JSON format)
  The processing and delivery of the e-documents of diploma, award certification letter and academic transcript may require a few additional days following the conferment of degree. The detailed arrangement of collection for the paper diploma and academic transcript will be sent to graduates in writing near the time of distribution.
  7.
  Conferment of Degree
  Degrees will be conferred in absentia at scheduled sessions below:
  (1) 31 January
  (2) 31 March
  (3) 31 May
  (4) 15 July*
  (5) 15 October
  * Approval by the University Council, the date in July has been changed to 15 July, starting from 2025/26 academic year.
  Students will automatically have their degrees conferred at the immediate next session of the degree conferral that follows the HKUST Committee on Postgraduate Studies (CPS) meeting in which their graduation is confirmed (e.g. students who receive HKUST CPS approval to graduate in January will have their degrees conferred on 31st January).
  8.
  Key Dates for Graduation
  Key Dates for Graduating in Spring Term in the Year of 2025-26
  Date
  Event
  Early-March 2026
  Announcement of preliminary graduation check results
  Early-June 2026
  Final graduation check
  7 June 2026
  Thesis Submission Deadline for Spring 2025-26
  No later than 11 June 2026
  Submission of surplus course exclusion request via Program Office by student
  Mid-June 2026
  Recommendation for Graduation by the HKUST(GZ) Committee on Postgraduate Studies
  Late-June 2026
  Approval of Graduation by HKUST Senate Committee
  15 July 2026
  Conferment of Degree
  Key Dates for Graduating in Summer Term in the Year of 2025-26
  Date
  Event
  Early-July 2026
  Announcement of preliminary graduation check results
  23 August 2026
  Thesis Submission Deadline for Summer 2025-26
  Mid- August 2026
  Final graduation check
  No later than 20 August 2026
  Submission of surplus course exclusion request via Program Office by student
  Early-September 2026
  Recommendation for Graduation by the HKUST(GZ) Committee on Postgraduate Studies
  Mid-September 2026
  Approval of Graduation by HKUST Senate Committee
  15 October 2026
  Conferment of Degree
  Related Information

tables:
  - Date | Event
  - Early-March 2026 | Announcement of preliminary graduation check results
  - Early-June 2026 | Final graduation check
  - 7 June 2026 | Thesis Submission Deadline for Spring 2025-26
  - No later than 11 June 2026 | Submission of surplus course exclusion request via Program Office by student
  - Mid-June 2026 | Recommendation for Graduation by the HKUST(GZ) Committee on Postgraduate Studies
  - Late-June 2026 | Approval of Graduation by HKUST Senate Committee
  - 15 July 2026 | Conferment of Degree
  - Date | Event
  - Early-July 2026 | Announcement of preliminary graduation check results
  - 23 August 2026 | Thesis Submission Deadline for Summer 2025-26
  - Mid- August 2026 | Final graduation check
  - No later than 20 August 2026 | Submission of surplus course exclusion request via Program Office by student
  - Early-September 2026 | Recommendation for Graduation by the HKUST(GZ) Committee on Postgraduate Studies
  - Mid-September 2026 | Approval of Graduation by HKUST Senate Committee
  - 15 October 2026 | Conferment of Degree

links:
  - Academic Regulations Governing Postgraduate Studies for The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou) | https://fytgs.hkust-gz.edu.cn/internal-resources/academic-regulations
  - Handbook for Taught Postgraduate Studies | https://fytgs.hkust-gz.edu.cn/handbooks/handbook-for-taught-postgraduate-studies
  - Handbook for Research Postgraduate Studies | https://fytgs.hkust-gz.edu.cn/handbooks/handbook-for-research-postgraduate-studies
  - GR26a form | https://eform.hkust-gz.edu.cn/BPM/YZSoft/forms/Post.aspx?pn=Application_for_Credit_Transfer(PG)
  - GR27a form | https://eform.hkust-gz.edu.cn/BPM/YZSoft/forms/Post.aspx?pn=Course_Substitution_or_Deviation(PG)
  - Program Catalog | https://fytgs.hkust-gz.edu.cn/postgraduate-programs/postgraduate-program-catalog/
  - Student Center | https://sisp.hkust-gz.edu.cn/gzsisp/signon.html
  - link | https://acad-edoc.hkust-gz.edu.cn/index