Campus page: Sports Facilities
Language: en
Section: facilities
Source: https://www.hkust-gz.edu.cn/campus-life/facilities-services/sports-facilities/

The General Introduction of the Sports Facilities

The Sports Facilities of HKUST(GZ) mainly consist of two parts. The indoor sports stadiums and the outdoor sports fields. The construction area of the indoor stadiums is total 14953.67 square meters, with total one floor and the building height of 15.85 meters, of which middle is set partial mezzanine used as equipment room. The indoor venues include Natatorium, comprehensive venues (basketball, badminton, volleyball), table tennis court, squash court, multi-functional gymnasium and sports venues, and non-open Rock-climbing Wall. The outdoor construction area is 1619 square meters with 768 bleacher seats, under which is set up emergency room, storeroom, men and female toilets and showers room. The fields include: the sports fields combining with a standard 400m comprehensive track and a standard artificial football field. There are three standard tennis courts in the west of the bleacher. In addition, there is a standard outdoor basketball court located in the north campus area.

Natatorium

This is an indoor constant temperature with international standard swimming pool, which the temperature is constant at 22-30 degrees throughout the year. The water area is 1050 square meters with 50 meters long and 21 meters wide, which has 8 lanes with about 2.5 meters width of each lane. The water depth of the swimming pool is deepened with a slope of 1.4m to 2m from west to east and 328 audience seats were be set up at the south of the swimming pool.

In terms of the water quality, the swimming pool is equipped with a 24-hour water circulation filtration system. Manage personnel will test the water quality daily and use ozone and disinfected tablets to disinfect the swimming pool regularly and quantitatively based on the test results. The water quality meets the national standards.

In terms of safety insurance, based on the size of the swimming pool, we have allocated 6 professional lifeguards, each of whom get the certificate of national certification, which will effectively ensure the safety of the swimmers.

At present, the swimming pool has been reserved for free to use by teachers, employees, students and family members.

Comprehensive Stadium (basketball, badminton, volleyball)

The stadium can be used as three standard basketball venues. The total area is 2527 square meters with imported wood flooring on the ground, which is equipped 360 electrically retractable seats. Due to the needs, one of the venues is set 6 badminton courts, while the other one is set multi-functional for volleyball and basketball. And one standard basketball venue is retained. Meanwhile, the stadium can be converted into a conference hall with about 1400 seats as need.

Table Tennis Court

The court covers 249.2 square meters with imported wood flooring, which allocated 4 DOUBLE FISH competition tables. The hardware facilities have reached the provincial and municipal competition level, and all are fully open for booking currently.

Squash Courts

The court covers a area of 255.45 square meters with imported wood flooring on the ground, and the wall is made of high-strength explosion-proof glass. It consists of 4 standard courts and is fully open for reservation to use currently.

The Multifunctional GYM and Sports Room

The multifunctional GYM covers the area of 845.87 square meters and is mainly divided into three major areas: fitness, fitness training and combat area. The site is equipped with a few aerobics’ equipment, including treadmill, elliptical machines, fitness bike, rowing machine, stair machine, various strength fitness equipment, fitness training equipment and combat, which all are open to use. In addition, there are three multifunctional rooms, covering an area of 481.39 square meters, 152.23 square meters, 140.51 square meters, one of which is set as a badminton court, the other two are provided for multifunctional use.

Outdoor Comprehensive fields of Track and Football Field

The venue is designed according to the standard of 400m comprehensive track field, with a radius of 36.5m, a straight track length of 84.39m and a track width of 1.22m. Eight main runways have been set up at the east straight and curved tracks. And ten 110m straight tracks have been set up under the west of stands. The overall settings meet the kinds of level matches of the national track.

Track items setting: A 100m and 110m hurdle track has been set up at the west straight track. All other track competition items which specified by Chinese Athletics Federation can be conducted on the circular track. The layout of inner ground: there are two long jump and triple jump auxiliary tracks, four sandbox areas and one pole vault auxiliary track and sparring in the northern half circle. There is a high jump court located within the southern half circle. There is a 105m*68m international standard football field which is made of artificial turf within the 400m standard track.

Outdoor Tennis and Basketball Court

The outdoor tennis court has three standard full-court layouts, which adopts well-known domestics brand. All of them are open for booking to use. The outdoor basketball is located in the north campus which has been open to use accordingly.