Campus page: Student Dormitories
Language: en
Section: facilities
Source: https://www.hkust-gz.edu.cn/campus-life/facilities-services/student-dormitories/

Student Dormitory Introduction

The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou) Phase One has seven buildings used as student dormitories, which can accommodate about 3,500 students in total. The student dormitory has 3 types of rooms, including multi-bedroom suites (6-bedroom unit, 7-bedroom unit, and 8-bedroom unit), 1B1B units, and Studios.

Multi-Bedroom Suites：

Independent Bedroom：Each student has a private bedroom, equipped with beds (including mattresses), desks, chairs, and wardrobes, which are simple and have good privacy.

Shared living and dining room： Spacious and bright living and dining room in the dormitory, equipped with leisure sofas, wooden coffee tables, wooden tables, and dining chairs, etc., providing a space for social sharing among roommates.

Kitchen： The kitchen is equipped with range hoods, double-door refrigerators, induction cookers, microwave ovens, electric kettles, and other home appliances.

Bathroom & Washstand： Multiple-bedroom suites are equipped with separate toilets and bathrooms, as well as two sets of double washstands.

1B1B & Studio：

Married students (graduate students, doctoral students) and students who need ADA accessibility can apply for a 1B1B or Studio in accordance with university regulations.

Student Counselling Center：

There is a psychological consultation station in the student dormitory, which is an important part of the university's care for students' mental health.

Laundry Room：

There is a laundry room on the first floor of the student dormitory, equipped with washing machines and dryers, to provide students with convenience in life.

Shared Activity Hall:

Together with ten student representatives, we designed a shared activity hall on the first floor of the dormitory, providing students with an activity space for gathering and sharing, and enriching students extracurricular life.

Music Room:

There are music rooms in some dormitory buildings, which provide a space for music-loving students to practice and perform.