dsa_doc: Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) Guidelines for Full-time PhD Students in DSA Program
doc_type: GTA
audience: DSA PhD students, DSA GTAs
section: 6. Handling of Violations
source_pdf: DSA Internal GTA Guidlines-202607(1).pdf
page_range: 4-5

content: >
  6.1 General Negligence during Service
  (1) If a course instructor finds that an in-course GTA's performance fails to meet the
  predetermined requirements, prompt communication shall be conducted, followed by a formal
  written warning outlining the issues, needed improvements, and a deadline for improvement.
  This written warning shall be copied to VPTLO for follow-up, and to the course offering unit
  and FYTGS for archiving. If no significant improvement is made within the specified period,
  the course instructor may request to disqualify the GTA for that course via GTA System. Upon
  approval by the course offering unit, the disqualification notice shall be sent to the GTA and
  copied to FYTGS and VPTLO for archiving.
  (2) If a task coordinator finds that a Special Task GTA's performance fails to meet the
  predetermined requirements, prompt communication shall be conducted, followed by a formal
  written warning outlining the issues, needed improvements, and a deadline for improvement.
  The warning shall be copied to DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn) for follow-up. If no
  significant improvement is made within the specified period, the faculty may request to
  disqualify the GTA by informing DSA Thrust.
  6.2 Major Violations
  (1) If an in-course GTA commits a major teaching incident, abandons their duties without prior
  authorization, or engages in other major violations, the course offering unit or course instructor
  shall submit a written report to VPTLO immediately. Upon receiving the report, VPTLO shall
  initiate an investigation. If the allegations are found to be unsubstantiated or the infraction is
  minor and does not constitute a major violation, VPTLO shall provide a written response to the
  relevant parties. If the allegations are substantiated and constitute a major violation, VPTLO
  shall submit an investigation report to FYTGS.
  Based on the relevant University regulations, FYTGS shall impose the following sanctions:
  ◆ Immediate disqualification of the GTA for the current term.
  ◆ A 50% reduction of the postgraduate studentships (PGS), effective for three months from
  the month of disqualification.
  ◆ Prohibition from serving as a GTA in the following term.
  (2) If a Special Task GTA commits a major teaching incident, abandons their duties without
  prior authorization, or engages in other major violations against research integrity, code of
  conduct and compliance, the coordinator shall inform DSA Thrust with evidence immediately.
  DSA Thrust will investigate and if the allegations are substantiated and constitute a major
  violation, the following sanctions will be imposed:
  ◆ Immediate disqualification of the GTA for the current term.
  ◆ A 50% reduction of the full postgraduate studentships (PGS), effective for three months
  from the month of disqualification. Such penalty will be calculated with other penalties
  such as unsatisfactory quarterly/annual progress.
  ◆ A mandatory make-up service must be made by the next regular semester.