dsa_doc: Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) Guidelines for Full-time PhD Students in DSA Program
doc_type: GTA
audience: DSA PhD students, DSA GTAs
section: 4. Performance Evaluation
source_pdf: DSA Internal GTA Guidlines-202607(1).pdf
page_range: 3-4

content: >
  4.1 Evaluation of In-Course GTAs
  (1) Process Evaluation
  To monitor ongoing teaching quality, regular surveys among all courses will be conducted by
  VPTLO to collect feedback from course instructors and GTAs. Course instructors may use this
  channel to provide prompt evaluations of GTA performance, while GTAs may raise concerns
  about professional guidance and task allocation. VPTLO shall provide support based on the
  feedback received to facilitate communication. Cases involving GTA violations shall be
  referred to Article 9 of HKUST(GZ) GTA Management Guidelines, while those involving
  course instructors shall be handled following the relevant University regulations.
  (2) End-of-Term Evaluation
  At the end of the term, coordinated by VPTLO, in-course instructors shall conduct a summary
  performance evaluation of the GTA's overall performance throughout the term via the System.
  Evaluation levels are: Excellent, Good, Fair, Unsatisfactory. After the instructor submits the
  evaluation result via the System:
  ◼ If the result is "Excellent" "Good" or "Fair", the GTA work for that term shall be
  considered completed and recognized upon the duty confirmation in the system.
  ◼ If the result is "Unsatisfactory", it shall be submitted to the course offering unit (DSA
  Thrust or other units) for review and approval. Upon approval, the final evaluation result
  shall be notified to the GTA. A rating of "Unsatisfactory" shall result in the failure of the
  GTA duty for that term.
  (3) Appeal
  A GTA may submit a written request to appeal the evaluation rating to VPTLO within three
  working days of receiving the result. VPTLO shall complete the review and provide a final
  response within five working days.
  4.2 Evaluation of GTAs with Special Tasks
  (1) End-of-Term Evaluation
  At the end of the term, the Thrust Office will contact the task coordinators overseeing the tasks
  to collect formal performance feedback on the GTAs.
  After compiling the task coordinator's assessment feedback, DSA Thrust will send a written
  notification to the student via email, attaching a copy of the completed assessment form for the
  student's reference.
  (2) Appeal
  If a GTA holds objections to the assessment outcome, they may submit a formal written appeal
  with supporting evidence to dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn within five working days of receiving the
  assessment notification. The DSA Postgraduate Committee will review all appeal materials and
  deliver a final, binding decision to the student within ten working days upon receipt of the
  appeal.