dsa_doc: DSA Policy for Research Travel Grants (RTG) in 2026
doc_type: RTG
audience: DSA PhD students, DSA undergraduate students
section: ELIGIBLE TRAVEL EXPENSES
source_pdf: 2026 DSA RTG Policy-202601(1).pdf
page_range: 3

content: >
  The registration fees, transportation expenses (flight, train, metro, taxi, etc.), accommodation for
  main conference (4 nights in max), visa fees, and printing expenses are eligible to be supported.
  - Frugality and Responsible Use of Funds
  All awardees are required to practice strict frugality and prioritize cost-effective options, even if the
  actual expenses fall below university reimbursement limits. Luxury hotel brands are not allowed
  unless justified by exceptional circumstances (e.g., conference venue requirements or safety
  concerns). Awardees are encouraged to share rooms with other students from HKUST(GZ) or
  another institution whenever possible. The hotel folio / receipt should show at least two names upon
  checkout and be submitted to Finance Department to support the reimbursement request.
  Note: Luxury hotel brands indicate e.g., Four Seasons, Ritz-Carlton, St. Regis, Waldorf Astoria, Shangri-
  La or equivalent 5-star establishments.
  - Non-Including Expenses
  1. All meals and beverages, daily necessities, souvenirs and personal gifts.
  2. Entrance tickets to tourist attractions, theme parks, or recreational activities, and related
  transportation costs.
  3. Accommodation and transportation expenses outside main conference period.
  In all cases, while the itinerary may include additional destinations, the DSA RTG-supported portion
  of transportation will be based only on the lowest available fare. Awardees may stay longer than the
  main conference period self-covered. Other conditions and restrictions on the use of student travel
  funds as established by the University shall apply.

tables:
  - Applicant Groups | Conditions | Maximum Grant
  - PhD (DSA/IIP- DSA) | 1st or 2nd author attending conferences marked A, or 2nd authors attending A+ conferences. | Up to CNY 4,000
  - PhD (DSA/IIP- DSA) | 1st and co-1st author attending A+ conferences | Up to CNY 7,000
  - BSc (General) | Y1-2 UG students supervised by DSA faculty | Up to CNY 3,000
  - BSc (DSBD) | Students have formally been admitted to the DSA Thrust and supervised by DSA faculty. | Up to CNY 7,000