dsa_doc: Thesis Proposal Examination (TPE) Guidelines for PhD Students in the DSA Program
doc_type: TPE
audience: DSA PhD students
section: C. Conducting
source_pdf: DSA-Thesis Proposal Examination (TPE) Guidelines-Version 202512.pdf
page_range: 5-7

content: >
  A thesis proposal examination takes place in a single session, comprising four parts. The first
  two parts are open to the public. The third part is closed to all but the candidate and the Thesis
  Proposal Examination Committee, and the fourth is a closed session of the Thesis Proposal
  Examination Committee in the absence of the candidate.
  1. The first part is an oral presentation of the thesis proposal by the candidate in no more
  than 30 minutes.
  2. The second part is an open questioning session, involving the Thesis Proposal
  Examination Committee and others in attendance. During this part of the examination, all
  questions are addressed through the Chairperson, and any dialogue is limited to the
  candidate and the individual questioner.
  3. The third part is a closed session involving a Q&A and discussion between the candidate
  and the Thesis Proposal Examination Committee. Other than the candidate and the
  committee members, other persons are not ordinarily allowed to attend this part. At the
  end of this part of the examination, the candidate must leave the examination venue.
  4. The fourth part is a closed session involving only the Thesis Proposal Examination
  Committee members, who then assess the performance of the candidate during the
  examination.
  Students will be evaluated based on the following criteria:
  1) The quality of the written proposal.
  2) The quality of the presentation.
  3) The student's ability to answer questions raised by the Thesis Proposal Examination
  Committee and guests.
  5. The Chairperson will convey the outcome of the thesis proposal examination to the
  student immediately after the fourth part.
  6. The Chairperson should complete the Chair's Report and return it to the DSA Thrust
  (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn) within 1 week after the exam. In the case where the
  Chairperson participates online, the supervisors or the examiner who are on-site should
  collect the paper Report first, then pass the authentic/scanned version to the Chairperson.
  The Chairperson should complete the Report with assistance from the DSA Thrust, not
  from the student being examined.
  Appendix 1
  Thesis Proposal Examination (TPE) Intention Email Template:
  From: Student's HKUST(GZ) email account
  To: DSA RPG Program (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn)
  Cc: All TPE Committee Members
  Subject: TPE Intention - [ZHANG, San] - [Student ID]
  Dear DSA Officer,
  I'd like to schedule my TPE on DD/MM/YYYY. Please kindly find the detailed information
  below:
  Student Name: SURNAME, First name (e.g., ZHANG, San)
  Student ID:
  Proposed PQE date: DD/MM/YYYY
  Proposed PQE time: XX:XX a.m./p.m.
  Prime supervisor: Prof. SURNAME, First Attend onsite or online
  name
  (please delete as appropriate)
  Co-supervisor: Prof. SURNAME, First Attend onsite or online
  name
  (please delete as appropriate)
  Invited Chairperson: Prof. SURNAME, First Attend onsite or online
  name
  (please delete as appropriate)
  Chairperson Email:
  Invited Examiner: Prof. SURNAME, First Attend onsite or online
  name
  (please delete as appropriate)
  Examiner Email:
  Please find the endorsement emails from the invited committee members attached above for
  your records.
  Please kindly help set up a Zoom link/book a classroom as the TPE venue, and help present my
  intention to the PG Coordinator for approval. Thank you.
  Best regards,
  [Student Name]
  Revision History：
  Revised Date Version Revised Contents
  Sep 12 2023 Original
  Updated the Thrust contact email.
  Changed the TPE timeline.
  Added the application process for requesting a waiver of the TPE.
  Clarified the outcomes of failing the TPE.
  Elaborated on the composition of the committee.
  Dec 19 2025 202512
  Clarified the procedure for late proposal submission.
  Clarified the attendance mode for committee members from CWB
  or other institutions.
  Added the application process for students' online attendance
  under special circumstances.

tables:
  - StudentName: | SURNAME,Firstname(e.g.,ZHANG,San)
  - Student ID:
  - ProposedPQEdate: | DD/MM/YYYY
  - ProposedPQEtime: | XX:XXa.m./p.m.
  - Primesupervisor: | Prof.SURNAME,First name | Attendonsite or online (pleasedeleteasappropriate)
  - Co-supervisor: | Prof.SURNAME,First name | Attendonsite or online (pleasedeleteasappropriate)
  - InvitedChairperson: | Prof.SURNAME,First name | Attendonsite or online (pleasedeleteasappropriate)
  - ChairpersonEmail:
  - InvitedExaminer: | Prof.SURNAME,First name | Attendonsite or online (pleasedeleteasappropriate)
  - ExaminerEmail:
  - RevisedDate | Version | RevisedContents
  - Sep122023 | Original
  - Dec192025 | 202512 | UpdatedtheThrustcontactemail. ChangedtheTPEtimeline. AddedtheapplicationprocessforrequestingawaiveroftheTPE. ClarifiedtheoutcomesoffailingtheTPE. Elaboratedonthecompositionofthecommittee. Clarifiedtheprocedureforlateproposalsubmission. ClarifiedtheattendancemodeforcommitteemembersfromCWB orotherinstitutions. Addedtheapplicationprocessforstudents'onlineattendance underspecialcircumstances.