dsa_doc: PhD Qualifying Examination (PQE) Guidelines for PhD Students in the DSA Program
doc_type: PQE
audience: DSA PhD students
section: C. Conducting
source_pdf: DSA-PhD Qualifying Examination (PQE) Guidelines-Version 202512 (1).pdf
page_range: 6-9

content: >
  A qualifying examination takes place in a single session, comprising four parts. The first two
  parts are open to the public. The third part is closed to all but the candidate and the PQE
  Committee, and the fourth is a closed session of the PQE Committee in the absence of the
  candidate.
  1. The first part is an oral presentation about the survey by the candidate. The oral
  presentation should normally take approximately 30 minutes.
  2. The second part is an open questioning session, involving the PQE Committee members,
  and others in attendance. This part should normally take approximately 10 minutes.
  3. The third part is a closed session involving Q&A and discussion between the candidate
  and the PQE Committee. Other than the candidate and the PQE Committee members,
  others are not ordinarily allowed to attend this part. At the end of this part of the
  examination, the candidate must leave the examination venue and wait nearby.
  4. The fourth part is a closed session involving only the PQE Committee members, who
  then assess the performance of the candidate during the examination.
  Students will be evaluated based on the following criteria:
  1) The quality of the written survey.
  2) The quality of the presentation, including the student's ability to understand the
  background of the proposed research and the research potential demonstrated during
  the presentation.
  3) The student's ability to answer questions raised by the PQE Committee and guests.
  5. The Chairperson will convey the outcome of the PQE to the student immediately after the
  fourth part.
  6. The Chairperson should complete the Chair's Report and return it to the DSA Thrust
  (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn) within 1 week after the exam. In the case where the
  Chairperson participates online, the supervisors or the examiner who are on-site should
  collect the paper Report first, then pass the authentic/scanned version to the Chairperson.
  The Chairperson should complete the Report with assistance from the DSA Thrust, not
  from the student being examined.
  7. The DSA Thrust will report the final result with the HKUST(GZ) Academic Registry
  Service (ARS) after receiving the Chair's Report from the Chairperson. Then ARS will
  record the results in the Student Information System (SIS). Students can check their PQE
  status in their Advisement Reports after the update.
  Appendix 1
  PhD Qualifying Examination (PQE) Intention Email Template:
  From: Student's HKUST(GZ) email account
  To: DSA RPG Program (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn)
  Cc: All PQE Committee Members
  Subject: PQE Intention - [ZHANG, San] - [Student ID]
  Dear DSA Officer,
  I'd like to schedule my PQE on DD/MM/YYYY. Please kindly find the detailed information
  below:
  Student Name: SURNAME, First name (e.g., ZHANG, San)
  Student ID:
  Proposed PQE date: DD/MM/YYYY
  Proposed PQE time: XX:XX a.m./p.m.
  Prime supervisor: Prof. SURNAME, First Attend onsite or online
  name
  (please delete as appropriate)
  Co-supervisor: Prof. SURNAME, First Attend onsite or online
  name
  (please delete as appropriate)
  Invited Chairperson: Prof. SURNAME, First Attend onsite or online
  name
  (please delete as appropriate)
  Chairperson Email:
  Invited Examiner: Prof. SURNAME, First Attend onsite or online
  name
  (please delete as appropriate)
  Examiner Email:
  Please find the endorsement emails from the invited committee members attached above for
  your records.
  Please kindly help set up a Zoom link/book a classroom as the PQE venue, and help present my
  intention to the PG Coordinator for approval. Thank you.
  Best regards,
  [Student Name]
  Revision History：
  Revised Date Version Revised Contents
  2021 Original
  Added extension rules and application procedure.
  Updated PQE Committee composition (Chair appointment).
  Jul 07 2022 202209 Standardized exam confirmation procedure.
  Clarified each exam session.
  Specified PQE result report procedure.
  Oct 19 2023 202310 Changed Thrust contact email.
  Changed Thrust contact email.
  Mar 18 2024 202403
  Clarified attendance mode.
  Apr 08 2024 202404 Clarified extension application flow.
  Elaborated committee composition.
  Stipulated deadlines for the use of 1st and 2nd attempts and
  beyond limit period. Clarified the outcomes of late scheduling and
  Sep 01 2025 202509 failing PQE.
  Clarified the procedure of late survey submission.
  Clarified attendance mode for committee members from CWB or
  other institutions.
  Changed the PQE timeline.
  Updated the extension guide.
  Dec 02 2025 202512 Updated the outcomes of failing the PQE.
  Added the application process for students' online attendance
  under special circumstances.

tables:
  - StudentName: | SURNAME,Firstname(e.g.,ZHANG,San)
  - Student ID:
  - ProposedPQEdate: | DD/MM/YYYY
  - ProposedPQEtime: | XX:XXa.m./p.m.
  - Primesupervisor: | Prof.SURNAME,First name | Attendonsite or online (pleasedeleteasappropriate)
  - Co-supervisor: | Prof.SURNAME,First name | Attendonsite or online (pleasedeleteasappropriate)
  - InvitedChairperson: | Prof.SURNAME,First name | Attendonsite or online (pleasedeleteasappropriate)
  - ChairpersonEmail:
  - InvitedExaminer: | Prof.SURNAME,First name | Attendonsite or online (pleasedeleteasappropriate)
  - ExaminerEmail:
  - RevisedDate | Version | RevisedContents
  - 2021 | Original
  - Jul07 2022 | 202209 | Addedextensionrulesandapplicationprocedure. UpdatedPQECommitteecomposition(Chairappointment). Standardizedexamconfirmationprocedure. Clarifiedeachexam session. SpecifiedPQEresultreportprocedure.
  - Oct 192023 | 202310 | ChangedThrustcontactemail.
  - Mar 182024 | 202403 | ChangedThrustcontactemail. Clarifiedattendancemode.
  - Apr082024 | 202404 | Clarifiedextensionapplicationflow.
  - Sep012025 | 202509 | Elaboratedcommitteecomposition. Stipulateddeadlinesfortheuseof1st and2nd attemptsand beyondlimitperiod.Clarifiedtheoutcomesoflateschedulingand failingPQE. Clarifiedtheprocedureoflatesurveysubmission. ClarifiedattendancemodeforcommitteemembersfromCWBor otherinstitutions.
  - Dec022025 | 202512 | ChangedthePQEtimeline. Updatedtheextensionguide. Updated theoutcomesoffailingthePQE. Addedtheapplicationprocessforstudents'onlineattendance underspecialcircumstances.