dsa_doc: PhD Qualifying Examination (PQE) Guidelines for PhD Students in the DSA Program
doc_type: PQE
audience: DSA PhD students
section: B. Scheduling
source_pdf: DSA-PhD Qualifying Examination (PQE) Guidelines-Version 202512 (1).pdf
page_range: 4-5

content: >
  PhD Qualifying Examination Intention
  1. In consultation with the supervisors, students will propose a date for the PhD Qualifying
  Examination and the membership of the PhD Qualifying Examination Committee, after
  meeting the requisite requirements. It allows a student to proceed with the PQE without
  their supervisors' agreement, but it mandates that the supervisors confirm their
  attendance for the student's examination.The examination should be scheduled on normal
  workdays to encourage participation from members of the Hub/Thrust community.
  2. The PhD students should declare their exam intention by email to the DSA Thrust
  (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn), with endorsement letters from all invited committee members
  enclosed. (Email template is enclosed in Appendix 1).
  3. The DSA Thrust will present the intention to the PG Coordinator who will endorse the
  exam.
  4. The DSA Thrust will then send a calendar invitation as confirmation to the student being
  examined and all committee members. The calendar invitation includes the following
  information: exam date and time, venue, and membership of the PQE Committee. The
  PQE intention and the membership of the PQE Committee must be confirmed by the
  DSA Thrust at least 6 weeks before the exam date. Students should allow sufficient time
  for the above processes. Inadequate notice served for scheduling will result in
  postponement of the PQE.
  PQE Survey Submission
  1. The survey should be distributed by email to the committee members, with a copy to the
  DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn) at least 2 weeks prior to the oral examination.
  The PhD Qualifying Examination Committee has the discretion to cancel the exam if the
  quality of the survey does not meet the standard. Should such a case occur, the student
  will be notified by the DSA Thrust.
  2. In case of late submission, the student must obtain prior consent from their PQE
  Committee at least 1 week before the survey submission deadline. The student should
  propose the expected submission time to their PQE Committee via email and forward the
  consent emails to the DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn).
  3. If the committee rejects the request, the student should either submit the survey as
  originally scheduled or reschedule the exam. If the late submission approval is not
  obtained before the required deadline, it will be considered that the committee has
  rejected the extension request.
  Attendance Mode
  The default attendance mode is in-person for the examinee and all GZ members of the PQE
  Committee. Committee members from CWB or other institutions can attend online. To render
  more flexibility in the conduct of PQE, the examinations may be conducted in a hybrid mode.
  - If any GZ examiners are unable to attend the examination in person under special
  circumstances, the examiners should obtain email approval from the DSA PG Coordinator
  at least 1 working day prior to the exam, with a copy to the DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust-
  gz.edu.cn). To ensure academic integrity and quality assurance, at least 1 examiner must
  participate on-site with the examinee.
  - If a student cannot attend the examination in person due to urgent and special
  circumstances temporarily, the student should provide strong justification, obtain email
  approval from supervisors, and then forward the emails to the DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust
  -gz.edu.cn) for the PG Coordinator's approval at least 1 working day prior to the exam.