dsa_doc: Thesis Proposal Examination (TPE) Guidelines for PhD Students in the DSA Program
doc_type: TPE
audience: DSA PhD students
section: B. Scheduling
source_pdf: DSA-Thesis Proposal Examination (TPE) Guidelines-Version 202512.pdf
page_range: 3-4

content: >
  Thesis Proposal Examination Intention
  1. In consultation with the supervisors, students will propose a date for the thesis proposal
  examination and the membership of the Thesis Proposal Examination Committee. The
  examination should be scheduled on normal workdays to encourage participation from
  members of the Hub/Thrust community.
  2. The PhD students should declare their exam intention by email to the DSA Thrust
  (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn), with endorsement letters from all invited committee members
  (other than supervisors) enclosed. (Email template is enclosed in Appendix 1).
  3. The DSA Thrust will present the intention to the PG Coordinator who will endorse the
  exam.
  4. The DSA Thrust will then send a calendar invitation as confirmation to the student being
  examined and all committee members. The calendar invitation includes the following
  information: exam date and time, venue, and membership of the TPE Committee. The
  TPE intention and the membership of the TPE Committee must be confirmed by the DSA
  Thrust at least 6 weeks before the exam date. Students should allow sufficient time for the
  above processes. Inadequate notice served for scheduling will result in postponement of
  the TPE.
  Thesis Proposal Submission
  1. The proposal should be distributed by email to the committee members, with a copy to the
  DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn) at least 2 weeks prior to the oral examination. The
  Thesis Proposal Examination Committee has the discretion to cancel the exam if the
  quality of the proposal does not meet the standard. Should such a case occur, the student
  will be notified by the DSA Thrust.
  2. In case of late submission, the student must obtain prior consent from their TPE
  Committee at least 1 week before the proposal submission deadline. The student should
  propose the expected submission time to their TPE Committee via email and forward the
  consent emails to the DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust-gz.edu.cn).
  3. If the committee rejects the request, the student should either submit the proposal as
  originally scheduled or reschedule the exam. If the late submission approval is not
  obtained before the required deadline, it will be considered that the committee has rejected
  the extension request.
  Attendance Mode
  The default attendance mode is in-person for the examinee and all GZ members of the TPE
  Committee. Committee members from CWB or other institutions can attend online. To render
  more flexibility in the conduct of TPE, the examinations may be conducted in a hybrid mode.
  - If any GZ examiners are unable to attend the examination in person under special
  circumstances, the examiners should obtain email approval from the DSA PG Coordinator
  at least 1 working day prior to the exam, with a copy to the DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust-
  gz.edu.cn). To ensure academic integrity and quality assurance, at least 1 examiner must
  participate on-site with the examinee.
  - If a student cannot attend the examination in person due to urgent and special
  circumstances temporarily, the student should provide strong justification, obtain email
  approval from supervisors, and then forward the emails to the DSA Thrust (dsarpg@hkust
  -gz.edu.cn) for the PG Coordinator's approval at least 1 working day prior to the exam.